good morning everyone it's time for the garden video 2021 this is early may and i have some
plants here only four right now there'll be more here soon these are spinach by the way and i'm
just gonna use a small dish to give them some water here in the early morning oops
and there we go but the big thing happening at the moment is that we have to go and fix the garden
from last year's damage i don't know if you saw last year's video but uh so there's there's
some stuff that needs to be done so before we put any plants in that'll be the first thing that we
do with the garden this year and here's the state of the garden yeah it's kind of no good eh this
is from when last year naomi broke the door that was here she kicked it in while she was watering
the plants but that's fine so what i have to do is i have some more used doors that are you know
they're no good for inside the house i'm going to use them for this um i'll shovel all this earth
back i'll uh maybe even reuse some of the screws there to attach the new door and then the new
plants come tomorrow so naomi and i will uh will weed plant and water and guess what using the
power of movie magic all i have to do is snap my fingers and it'll be done well it's uh it's a bit
bigger than i would have liked it's a lot taller than the last door
oops but you know what it'll be fine it'll be fine uh but definitely naomi can't go over this
side anymore geez like it's it's like almost up to my waist all right guys the plants are here
look at them look at them that was a little bit yellow but it'll be fine it's time these guys
got to go outside and they got to go outside today so as naomi does all the weeding right
there hi naomi hey guys this all has to also be smoothed out and i'm going to grab all the
compost from the composter back there and shove it in the garden that's going to be a lot of fun
composting is good for the earth but it sure is gross
basically for a good compost you need uh you need greens which are you know vegetables including the
orange carrots but generally just like vegetables and you need browns which are egg cartons and
toilet paper rolls and that'll mix together and give you a good compost so that's the top of it
where it's this is all new stuff oh my god what i just pulled out a clump of dirt that wasn't
didn't have anything attached to it it was just roots yep this stuff at the top here will become
compost in like a year or two it's the stuff at the bottom that's going to be very fully composted
come on come on come on it's you look at that at the bottom there look at that
hold on that's that's all vegetables that have been turned into compost
good stuff dude this giant worm just came crawling out of the compost
when he stretches he's like 10 centimeters long actually no it's more like 20 look at him go
he's actually like beeline towards naomi who has who has the bug phobia there's a lot of
wigglies in here already a lot of wigglies in here that's how you know it's a good compost
is if you get big fat worms who are enjoying life in there
it's a spider it's so many ants i hate this so much it's terrifying so so naomi how do you
feel about like the next mass effect show that we do which will actually be very soon
being all about the rachni oh god i forgot about them can we just skip that part
so as naomi rakes and levels the earth i'm gonna do a few things i've gotta basically repair this
trellis from the winter and clear off of those old cucumber vines they actually stayed there
all winter any more bugs oh there's always bugs i just they're all under the dirt there we go
the garden looks uh done for now we're gonna go put some plants in now we've got this bag of manure
we have to cut open you'll see naomi has to figure it out so i'll just take these uh scissors
from ye old kitchen that naomi's gonna get mad about using on poop yeah what are you doing we
have other scissors and you cut open the bag of manure and there it is there's our manure
no one wants you to film and what we'll do is we'll just like dig a little hole and put the
poop in and then put the plant in the hole and then bury it up and there we go let me show you
how it's done here is how to plant a plant 101 dig down a whole bunch okay and then you take
yourself a handful of poop why aren't you using gloves for the poop take yourself this handful
of poop here it is i'm gonna just put it in the bottom of the hole there's the poop
and you lick your fingers you have your pepper plants right you just kind of pop them out
oh from the bottom yeah okay come on pepper plant i'm losing breaking it jesus pop it out
come on and then you like put it with the poop and you put it like in the ground like so see
and don't cover up the plant obviously and there's your plant hooray and now when the roots go down
and impact that poop it'll take off real quick and everything's in it a little bit dirty but
it's fine it's fine it's just me now Naomi uh saw a big bug and left but we uh we pretty much
finished up anyway she just she's cleaning up the tomatoes are in the back there by the deck
as are the cucumbers the cucumbers are a little bit bunched together but that's okay because
they're gonna they're gonna grow up that trellis and over onto the deck so that's fine peppers
are here same as last year along with the snap peas along the side of the shed here here there's
kale and spinach a row of each and i didn't mind playing them a little bit closer together than
normal because i'll be cutting them regularly so they before they actually start growing in on each
other i'll be snipping them and then eating them it was a hard couple hours work but you know now
that it's done it's it's not that big of a deal you know like that first initial round of work
is pretty tough look at that look at that bug i'm gonna get him ha i soaked him so that first
initial round of um of planting is kind of tough but after you're set you're pretty much set you
just gotta and you just gotta water every day and kind of wait basically as long as you put
that that manure in there you'll be fine good morning guys it's the first week of june about
5 45 in the morning and check it out the spinach is at the point i'm gonna have to harvest it soon
there's actually a few dead leaves there from some frost a couple weeks ago but i can start
cutting this spinach off and eating it um the beans are all going good except for that last
one back there you can see it's bent a bit the uh the frost killed that one one of the cucumbers
died it used to go in red that spot right there that's gone and the rest of them are kind of
wilted um and a few leaves fell off this kale so there's only one leaf left in the kale plant
i don't know if that's going to make it but like aside from those those problems everything is
bright and green and growing yeah man even the basil is pretty good though i might start cutting
that soon too so it's the middle of june and check out how it looks tomatoes coming in nicely
the cucumbers perked right up kale's growing in peppers they always take a while and look at look
at how high some of these beans are climbing man so with the kale you just kind of take your
scissors here like this and go in you snip snip off all the lower leaves and those will be the
ones that you eat and the higher leaves will help stimulate some new growth like so you can
leave about two or three leaves on there leave the smaller ones in the middle all these i'll
freeze them away and i'll eat them over the course of the year and then that's the plant
i'm gonna do that for all of these guys and good morning everyone the garden's looking very good
there's naomi going to get water and the tomatoes are actually taking off quite a bit peppers are
doing okay this is actually the earliest growth we've seen on a lot of these plants in this
location the cucumbers are going there's the spinach now i picked off a bunch of the seeds
of the spinach and the leaves and i'm hoping they'll return because i know with spinach
if you let them go too long they will go to seed which is no good because they stop growing leaves
well i picked all the seed shoots off and i cut all the leaves and it looks like the leaves are
starting to regrow again so maybe we'll get more spinach out of it there's the pea vines they're
going up no peas yet i don't think anyway let's take a closer look maybe some coming in here
the peas are going very well this time this one broke this one broke back at the start of the year
and it's just it's done look at how floppy it is it's done yeah see there's like new shoots coming
out of the spinach with with new leaves and new seeds so we'll get a bit more spinach out of it
these cucumbers contrary to every other cucumber i've had they're growing straight up so i will
have to like move them towards the various bits of mesh that i have here set up can you even reach it
good so i'm going to cut some of this uh this kale because the kale is due from your trim
and i'll see you in a few more weeks so i just pulled two bags of kale out of the garden these
will go into the freezer and we'll eat them over the course of the winter and there's all the kale
plants now that they've been trimmed down they're a lot smaller however Naomi sniffle up a storm
pollen so one thing of note though is that this plant it lost all of its leaves early
and like i didn't cut them they just kind of fell off but there's one leaf left that i've left there
just so it has some way to get sun and it's been growing a bunch of shoots
do you think it's time to cut this leaf off i don't want to kill them i want those shoots to
come in before i cut this thing off well maybe you should wait till it's like more leafy then
yeah once these shoots become leaves like even small leaves like like this one then i'll cut
this giant leaf off hey Naomi does it bother you that i use the kitchen scissors in the garden
i've given up caring it's early july and here's the garden it's it's grown quite a bit so those
tomatoes are just going nuts over there and into a big jungle peppers are doing okay there's a few
coming in you've harvested the kale a few times it's time for another harvest pretty much
the spinach was only so so the peas have taken off all the way up
it'll be on the roof soon there's actually a lot of peas this guy here for example
yeah there's a pea i'm gonna eat it
and it's pretty good the cucumbers are also climbing quite nicely too this is like this
is a better garden than last year so things are looking pretty good out here this morning it's
for one exception this vine has died it it feels very hollow i have no idea why
i got most of the peas off for this tiny one before it died
you can follow it all the way down and at its roots another vine has come up
and that's one of these two so the roots still seem to be good but for some reason this branch
died no idea why but here it is there are a lot of peas now though i'm gonna have to
start taking these off and eating them also look at this that is the first tomato welcome
to august 1st everybody and the garden's going isn't it look at it so let's let's go over it
tomatoes are all coming in there's a bunch of them about this size they'll be
good to pick in a few weeks peppers same thing okay get in there
yeah look at those they'll be good soon too the peas we ate a lot of peas and then they started
dying off um there's still a few coming in here but there's a few we have a few more just made it
too but same problem as last year a bunch of the roots just started dying something is happening
with my peas every year that's causing them to die halfway through the season now i'm still
getting growth and i'm still getting new peas but as you can see a lot of the vines are just not
doing very well the spinach all died so i just pulled them out kale is going very good i've
harvested five or six bags of kale and frozen it and now we have to talk about the cucumbers
because the cucumbers are going crazy look at this guy cucumbers are ready man there's a few
more hanging there this one i think is too big actually oops i didn't see it behind here so the
garden overall is not going as well as it did last year but it's still going very well i'm pretty
happy for that see just a contrast this is a picture of my neighbor's garden and her peas
and as you can see hers are going a lot better than mine um they're a lot more densely packed
they had a lot more peas that were growing in there densely packed you can see them up at the
top there and also even even back in there too and also the roots aren't nearly as uh
as like crinkled and brittle as mine are and additionally her support is a lot less tall than
mine too okay so i was gone for about five days and it rained a bunch during those five days so
this garden has gone completely um unattended and it's going peppers are pretty good tomatoes are
huge um and we have a problem with cucumbers because i was gone so long now they're almost
too big to eat look how big this is oh my god there's two huge ones look how big this is dude
okay well i'll see if we can eat them so here's today's harvest we got seven peppers
uh three cucumbers only two here right now because we ate some and three more bags of
kale to be frozen over the winter now if you're looking at these cucumbers and thinking they're
too big and grow too long um and they'll get they're gonna be woody and full of seeds
it's actually not the case we have a cucumber plant that just produces naturally very long
cucumbers here's the one that we've been eating we had some for lunch today here it is and you
can see even though it's huge it's actually just a regular amount of seed inside so this year my
garden lesson is don't travel so much in the summer because all of those cucumbers got really
big again these are almost too big to eat even geez but during the perfect time it was to pick
them i was i was not around there as well oh my god there's too many the tomatoes are getting
really big i'll probably start picking those as soon as they start turning uh turning red
peppers also very big too but i'll just wait a little bit longer until they uh they start
turning um yellow i guess they go yellow then orange then red eh and it's time for the kale
harvest everybody kale and here we are it is the last week of august i don't know if you can tell
but it's starting to rain and i actually have some pretty bad allergies right now so i'm going
to do this quick um here's the garden a lot of the tomatoes are coming in there are still some
more peppers that are growing down there as well the kale is doing okay and the cucumbers are
pretty much done but there's like five good cucumbers that need to be harvested the peas
of course are over we ate a lot of peas this year but they're done at this point i'm going to pull
a lot of the red tomatoes off and then we'll probably uh figure out what to do with them
maybe make sauce maybe make salsa and i have too many cucumbers i can't eat them fast enough
but i'm sure it'll be okay what is this this is a giant weed
yeah right here it's just it's not even part of the tomato it's just a giant
weed i didn't even notice it
oh my god
hold on i'm trying to
that's actually really big
i didn't even notice it this whole time so because there's still at least two to three more weeks of
decent weather left i didn't pull everything off these cucumbers are a bit yellow i think
i might have left them on there too long so i guess we'll we'll eat them and see how they are
here's all the tomatoes that had to come off there's maybe four times the amount still on
the bushes that are still kind of green so we'll give it a few more weeks for it to pull the garden
out and i also brought the basil plant upstairs it's time to to pull the leaves off this as well
the only thing is i still don't know how to make dried basil i don't really have access to like a
dry basement or anything so i don't know all right it is september 2nd and uh i'm quite sick
right now but i'm doing this anyway because the uh the growing season here in ontario is pretty
much over a lot of those tomatoes are good to go but a lot of them aren't a lot see there's still
a pretty big green one right there but basically it's time to pull everything off let them ripen
up in the house there's a few more cucumbers over there they got to be harvested the cucumbers did
not grow as well as last year's the tomatoes are about on par the peppers are about on par so i
guess i'll collect them all and we'll see what we have so here's a big pile of red tomatoes and i'm
going to gamble with the ones that i left on the vine like this one for example or this one maybe
they'll keep growing the problem is that yeah and these guys here they're still pretty small
the problem is we're getting into the part of the uh of the canadian
summer and fall where we sometimes get freak frost early in the year and if we do these will
all be gone but it might be worth a gamble just to leave them up for a couple weeks
and see if we get anything else out of it so just like last year basically as soon as we hit
september i kind of let the garden go things really weren't growing anymore and we had some
early frost so basically the idea was i'm not going to water it i'm not going to invest any
more time in it but whatever i happen to get out of it i will take down before it's all finally
dead so for example there's some pretty big peppers here you see like that one right there
and there's a few new like pepper flowers that probably aren't going to go anywhere
there's still a whole bunch of tomatoes that manage to grow to at least a half decent size
i know they're green and they're they're not fully grown yet but they're not gonna because
in the next few weeks it is going to be too cold so i will pull off pretty much everything that
can still be eaten there's actually a red one in there i can pull off everything that can still be
eaten there's a few small uh cucumbers over there too and that is it for the 2021 garden that's the
last of it for this year now time to get my girlfriend to do all the hard work of putting
it all away and cleaning it
so